{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20440\viewh14380\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 \
\
Laplace m. Celeste\
\
https://www.encyclopedia.com/people/science-and-technology/astronomy-biographies/pierre-simon-marquis-de-laplace\
\
\
https://play.google.com/books/reader?id=ZFdEAQAAMAAJ&hl=en&pg=GBS.PA466\
North British review\
\
https://play.google.com/books/reader?id=ZFdEAQAAMAAJ&hl=en&pg=GBS.PA466\
P 466 humboldt.  Centre of gravity\
\
\
https://play.google.com/books/reader?id=ZFdEAQAAMAAJ&hl=en&pg=GBS.PA466\
\
After pointing out the influence of plateaus upon climate, on the inflexion of the isothermal lines, upon agricul tural productions, and upon the physical and mental condition of the inhabitants, Baron Humboldt compares the area of the plains with the area of the chains of mountains, and he estimates the volume of these chains, and in general determines the centre of gravity of the mass of matter which, in the present state of our planet, is raised above the level of the sea. Laplace had drawn the conclusion, that the mean depth of the sea was of the same order as the mean height (3284 feet) of continents and islands above its level, a height which is only the 20th part of the excess (65,570 feet) of the equatorial above the polar radius of the earth; and conceiving that as there were high mountains rising from continents, there might be great cavities in the bosom of the sea, he thought, it a natural supposition that the depth of these cavities would be inferior to the heights of high mountains, as the deposits of rivers, and the exuviae of marine animals, carried down by currents, would in course of time fill up these large cavities. These views, however, are not con firmed by the elaborate investigations of our author, who has been led to the following results:\'97 Area in Square Mean height of the centre Marine Leagues. of gravity in English Feet. North America, - 607,000 - 75() South America, - 571,000 - 1132 All America, . 1,178,000 - 934 Asia, - - . 1,346,000 - 1152 Europe, . - - 304,000 - (372 Hence it appears that the mean height of the Continents of America, Asia, and Europe is 920 feet. In reference to Africa, for which we have no data, our author remarks, that the great depression of this continent to the north of the Lake Tchad, over a width of 30\'b0 of latitude, and the uncertain position of the (pre tended ?) mountains of the Moon, induce him to believe that, notwithstanding the considerable, altitudes of the plateaus of South Africa, the 958,000 square leagues which compose its sur face will scarcely tend to raise the centre of gravity of the other continents. He therefore concludes, that the mean height of all the continental regions above the level of the ocean is about 1020 English feet\'97a result very different from that of 3280 feet, as sumed by Laplace, and probably five or six times less than the\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cosmos: A Sketch of the Physical Description of the Universe\

\f2\b0 By Alexander von Humboldt\
P 301\
\
Laplace best of mean ht. Of continents 32890 3 times too high\
\
Mech. Cel.   t.v.  p 14\
\
Humboldt\'92s estimates\
\
De la hauteur moyenne des continents in my Asies Central t.i. p 82-90   165-189\
\
Laborious investigation\
\
Errors in Humboldt\'92s Cosmos\
Nature (letter to)\
P479-480.   April 18 1872. \
John Carrick Moore\
\
Laplace\
https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=nyp.33433069074825&view=1up&seq=45\
\
P16\
Density de la mer 1/5 la moyenne dentiste de la terre.\
\
1 000 metres each.  Meme ordre
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 https://stat545.com/shiny-slides.html\
\
Jenny Bryan UBC\
\
https://stat545guidebook.netlify.com\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Revisiting Francis Galton's Forecasting Competition\uc0\u8232 Author(s): Kenneth F. Wallis\u8232 Source: Statistical Science, Vol. 29, No. 3 (August 2014), pp. 420-424 Published by: Institute of Mathematical Statistics\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://books.google.com/ngrams"}}{\fldrslt 
\f4 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Google Ngram Viewers}}
\f4 \cf0  gives information about the frequency of words in Google Books. You can query for several words and the results is a graph. But they do not offer a way to export the data. To do so follow the instructions (Mac OS 10.12.2, Chrome 55):\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Specify the query and select a smoothing of 0. This ensures that you get the raw data that was not subjected to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smoothing"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 smoothing}}.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Open Developer Tools.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run the query.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Select the Sources panel\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Select \'93search all files\'94 (click on the three dots to see a menu where you can select this)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Search for \'93var data\'94\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Look in the resulting list of domains for something like \'93books.google.com/ngrams/graph?content=long&year_start=1800\'85..\'94\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Copy and clean the data
\f3 \cf3 \uc0\u8232 \
}